---
title: June 13th, 2021
description: June 13th
img: June.jpg
alt: June pic
author:
  name: Douglas
  bio: Douglas is a Software Engineer who is interested in computer vision and our quest for strong AI. He also is constantly looking for ways to push the envelope of his personal mental and physical fitness.
  image: ProfileDoug.jpg
  alt: Doug's profile pic
---

Today I did a good job of following my routine and not making it others peoples problem.

The secret there appears to be with actually taking my lunch break and being done with this blog by 8 so I can focus on spending time with others.

Let's see how I did on the daily routine.

I am going to keep yesterday's format of the daily routine.
Then I am going to add what I want to do tomorrow. 

- 5:45-6:00 Wake Up. ✔️
- Put on pants ✔️
- Run to a workout for 6:15 am while listening to an audio book ✔️
    - Run was good. The book is mediocre so far.
- 6:15 - 7:30 Workout ✔️
    - Just the lazy run this morning and extensive stretching + yoga. My back seems almost entirely recovered though.
- 7:45 do a meditation and reflection
  - Do a mantra on gratitude and that I may die. ❌
  - Go over short (six months) and long term (5 years) goals ❌
  - Go over my core principles ❌
  - Imagine what my whole day from that point onward will look like. Go over what I need to do to get there. ❌
  - Go over my constraints for the day. ❌
-  8 am - 12 pm - Deep work ✔️
    - Was one of my most productive days at work in some time.
- Walk home while listening to that audio book ✔️
- Cold Shower ❌
    - No shower at all today :|
- 12 pm - 12:30 pm Lunch ✔️
    - Wonderful
- 12:30 pm - 5:00 pm - Shallow Work.
    - Honestly was fairly deep
- 5:00 pm - 6:00 pm Dinner 
- 6:00 pm - 8:00 pm - Deep Work ✔️
    - machine learning work, coding problems, bash and python, and this website update.
- 8:00 pm - 9:30 pm - Relax and spend time with friends and family 
    - I like doing this :)
- 9:30 pm - 10:00 pm - Read ✔️
- 10:00 pm - 6:00 am - SLEEP ✔️
    - Big day at work tomorrow. I'll be getting up early workign out, showering and then hopping in the car to drive to our manufacturer an hour away.

Today was generally good.
* I do think going through the whole routine here is good.
* The not doing the mantra this morning is rough. I can definitely see how not doing that too many days in a row will cause me to forget why I am doing this which is dangerous.

Tomorrow is a pretty crazy work day.
The two hours of driving will give me lots of time to listen to my audio book.

Tomorrow I should do some sql exercises.

It also would be good to really thoroughly write out in my own words how the world models paper works and what I am going to be doing to make it better, complete with code references.

This is going to be a big blog post. 
I am also not sure if just making the controller more efficient by having it train in replays from the rnn before high reward events willa ctually have the kind of impact I am imagining. 

In any case it will be cool to see if that ends up helping and finally make some progress towards a real output.

As always, chase what excites you.
Douglas

