---
title: April 25th, 2021
description: A reflection on Sunday the 25th of April
img: April.jpg
alt: April Calendar
author:
  name: Douglas
  bio: Douglas is a Software Engineer who is interested in computer vision and our quest for strong AI. He also is constantly looking for ways to push the envelope of his personal mental and physical fitness.
  image: ProfileDoug.jpg
  alt: Doug's profile pic
---

Today has been largely a relaxing day. 

But I have committed myself to a whirlwind for the next week.

On Friday I fly to Hawaii. Here is what I need to do before then in order of priority.

These are organized like so
 * item to do
    * Effort required
    * additional work
        * Additional effort required
    * additional lower priority work
        * Additional effort required

* Be a good boyfriend
    * All the hours in the day and night :)
* Get my friend John a list of all of the professors working in meta-learning that I would like to work with so I can start to work with him to figure out which of those programs is best, and how I should position myself to go there.
    * When I was doing this in the past without the proper filter on Meta-learning, this seemed like an insurmountable task. 20 hours?
    * This really requires finding professors at a school I am interested in attending and reading their and their understudies research and verifying if it is something that I would be interested in working on. I can roughly skim a research paper in 15 minutes. If I can weed out 30% by looking over bios (2 minutes per), 50% by reading abstracts (10 minutes per) and the rest are eliminated by skimming papers, 30 minutes per, and the faculty represent ~20-45 people per school... And I only care about the top 10 grad schools for ML... That's 200-450 possible advising faculty... Even if we are generous and assume 10 minutes per faculty member that's 2000 to 4500 minutes or 33 - 75 hours. 
    * Since that isn't tenable in this week, we are just going to focus on the schools John and my grandfather can help me with which are: MIT, Cornel, Stanford? and Berkeley. That resolves to somewhere around 10 hours potentially (5 minutes * 30 profs per school * 4 schools / 60 ). Which might actually be doable. 
* Get emails sent out for our first round of guests for the podcast and finish any remaining work for our pre-episode to be sure we are done with it.
    * In progress. Should be wrapped up within 48 hours. We need to record an outro and maybe pick different music to really be done with the pre-episode
        ~ maybe 2 additional hours of work here
    * Sending emails should take ~2 hours
* Prep my team at work for my week vacation.
    * Will be done during normal working hours
* Finish the third multi-task and meta-learning lecture from Stanford.
    * The lecture is about 1 hour and 17 minutes. I have been finding to be thorough with these I have needed about 2 hours to take notes, look things up I don't understand, etc.
* Do the first homework for the meta-learning class
    * I really don't know how much effort this will be. ballpark... 4-8 hours
    * Preferably with a dockerfile so John doesn't have to worry about dependecies.
        * Might make things faster... Likely additional 1-2 hour commitment
    * Preferably in pytorch so John can check it out.
        * Additional 2-4 hours
        * Some infrastructure for these are built out in TF, and will require some work to port that to PyTorch. A good exercise, but a time consuming one
* Read the second paper associated with second lecture thoroughly. (I read the first thoroughly and have skimmed the second)
    * To read a paper thoroughly really seems to take 3-4 hours. I have done most of the legwork here so I am going to say 2 hours remaining

In total this is:
10 hours - Grad school profs
4 hours - podcasting work
8 hours - Meta learning class HW (Assuming some mix of the extras)
2 hours - Meta learning class paper

22 hours of work in Monday-Thursday Night with potentially some extra work on the plane.
+ 2 hours of working out every day
+ 8 hours of work for the job every day 
+ 8 hours of sleep
+ at least 2 hours for being a boyfriend a day

24 - 2 - 8 - 8 - 2 = 4 hours a day to do the 22 hours of work.
4 days 4 hours per day...
16 hours to do 22 hours of work.
Way better than I was expecting... Might be doable, especially if I finish some of this stuff on the plane out to Hawaii...

<br>
I had to rearrange the priorities and the scope a bit to get this all close to fitting, but it is close enough now that I am willing to say it's good for a plan and I'm glad I checked the sizing because the original plan was definitely not doable.

It all is really exciting work.


And I'm very excited to go relax in Hawaii :)



Chase what excites you.

Douglas
