---
title: April 12th, 2021
description: A reflection on Monday the 12th of April
img: April.jpg
alt: April Calendar
author:
  name: Douglas
  bio: Douglas is a Software Engineer who is interested in computer vision and our quest for strong AI. He also is constantly looking for ways to push the envelope of his personal mental and physical fitness.
  image: ProfileDoug.jpg
  alt: Doug's profile pic
---

- 4:45 AM - Woke up
    - Too early. There's no too ways about it. Going to sleep at 10:30 and getting up at 4:45 kills me. I die at 4 pm.
- Pants!
- 5:02 - Arrive at crossfit after 5:15 second run
    - 25 seconds slower than my PR. It was cold, I was tired, I was wearing lifting shoes instead of runnings shoes, and I couldn't get the excuses out of my head. If I could shut up and nut up I could have made a PR.
- Snatch focused workout
    - PR 115 (Not heavy I know mostly working on form still)
    - Tried to do double unders to keep it fresh from yesterday. 34. A new PR by 3 after 30 seconds of attempting.
- Walked Home. Still no audio book.
- A little half-caff Coffee. I try to avoid coffee at all costs but I was exhausted.
- Oatmeal
- Found a paper on applying variational auto-encoders (VAE) latent space to a causal model that I want to read.
- Talked to Lauren
- 8:00 AM - Started work. Left the phone upstairs
    - Leaving the phone upstairs was a huge success from a productivity perspective.
- 12:30 PM Burrito time
- 12:30 PM - 4:30 PM - Shallow work
- Re-enabled YouTube on my phone and watched a video for 30 minutes. The right amount of indulgence.
- 5:00 PM to 6:00 PM - Kept working
- 6:00 PM - 7:00 PM - Started to look for PyTorch VAE examples I could work through with a friend along with some work on another personal project.
- 7:00 PM - 7:30 PM - Went for a walk. I needed some fresh air to clear my head. The arboretum is really nice
- 7:30 PM - 8:15 PM - Realized that the best use way to learn VAE's from the ground up was the deep learning bible itself that I had: Deep Learning by Bengio, Goodfellow, and Courville.
- Relax and sleep...
    - My brain is shutting down... 6 am is good thanks.

Chase what excites you. Currently that is sleep