---
title: May 16th, 2021
description: May 16th
img: May.jpg
alt: May 2021 Calendar
author:
  name: Douglas
  bio: Douglas is a Software Engineer who is interested in computer vision and our quest for strong AI. He also is constantly looking for ways to push the envelope of his personal mental and physical fitness.
  image: ProfileDoug.jpg
  alt: Doug's profile pic
---

Today was great.

6 am wake up.

Heard back from the first of our potential podcast guests and we are working on logistics now.

Got business emails for the podcast set up.

Set up brokering a deal between my parents and a friend for a car which was fun.

Talked with some friends about potentially setting up a living situation together.

Worked out hard. 

Learned concrete things about the PhD search. Since I will be getting a masters degree first, being published isn't the most pressing concern.
Honing my application is and talking to folks in academia which will hopefully be partially accomplished by the podcast.

I'm going to transition largely off of the meta-learning class for now and really focus on who is doing what types of research at what schools and start building out applications for each schools.

For tomorrow, I want to make sure I meditate and go through my mantra. I want to make sure I work out and I perform well at work.

I'm chatting with some friends tomorrow as well about more apartment things. 

I want to identify my favorite research based institutions that I would want to apply to and start application folders for all of them tomorrow.

A start would be:

* MIT
* Cornel
* Carnegie Melon
* Berkeley

I think that will be a pretty full day for tomorrow.

It will be exciting. I spent a lot of time on the phone pulling strings today and moving pieces around on the board. I do like playing the politician to some extent. I would like to keep working towards a point where I can do that while also working on something important.

It's exciting to think about what that could be.

Chase what excites you.
Douglas
