---
title: May 25th, 2021
description: May 25th
img: May.jpg
alt: May 2021 Calendar
author:
  name: Douglas
  bio: Douglas is a Software Engineer who is interested in computer vision and our quest for strong AI. He also is constantly looking for ways to push the envelope of his personal mental and physical fitness.
  image: ProfileDoug.jpg
  alt: Doug's profile pic
---

Not a perfect day today but still pretty solid.

Here is what I said I would try to do yesterday:

* Morning Mantra
* 5:30 pm workout. I didn't do this. 
    * I felt pretty physically beat after 3 days in a row of workouts so I skipped it.
* I'll take a cold shower 
    * No workout no shower
* I will continue to work on understanding reinforcement learning techniques and pick an ML project I can reasonably tackle
  * current candidates are:
    * Clustering of ML papers and procedurally labeling converging clusters and the convergances to spot up and coming research trends
        * This is fascinating and I hope I build this at some point or I convence someone else to but I don't have the cycles for it and I think I know what I want to do right now, so therefore don't need to figure out what type of research interests me.
    * Building an LSTM or GRU based agent that runs around in the openAI gym
        * I think this is going to be what I am going to do here. Eventually, I want to work my way up to what some of the world model papers are doing. There are many layers of refinements there though. 
* I will nail down what I am responsible for in Wednesday's meeting for the podcast
    * I am going to show Michael how to login to the podcast@SciFiToReality.com email.
    * I am going to set up the video editor for our teaser.
    * We are going to go over what prep we need to do for our first guest.
    * Pick another idea for the next sub-series
    * Show Michael some of the ideas I have been thinking of using for our website so we can both run and use it. Keep that bus number high.
* I will do another post here

Tomorrow:

* Mantra
* 7:30 am workout.
* Cold shower
* work
* Follow up with some folks about apartments
* Podcast work
* The following day I should start the lstm reseach project