---
title: August 19, 2021
description: August 2nd, 2021
img: July.jpg
alt: August pic
author:
  name: Douglas
  bio: Douglas is a Software Engineer who is interested in computer vision and our quest for strong AI. He also is constantly looking for ways to push the envelope of his personal mental and physical fitness.
  image: ProfileDoug.jpg
  alt: Doug's profile pic
---

This morning was this fantastically lazy extended dream. I woke up late, I intentionally didn't work out because it was a rest day. I read some, I walked to the local bakery and got a sandwich and a hot chocolate. Then I walked back and munched on that while listening to the pouring rain. 

But after that...

Oof.

I don't know why I'm going back to being a bum so often. 
In the past I really have been able to some extent just been able to say. I'm gonna do this habit every day now and that's kinda just worked to some extent.

Maybe since it is documented now I am realizing that it doesn't?

Developments: I have a project on Eleuther.ai that is a fairly simple start project.

I have been really struggling to focus at work, the new team is fun but the lack of structure requires me to be focused at home with no oversight or other folks really being directly invested in what I'm doing.

I've been slowly getting back on the workout train and going every day again. The days I workout are the days everything else goes well.

Today I intentionally took a day off so tomorrow I could do my olympic total but was a bum all day for work which aint great.

It kinda seems like the huge variety of projects skating through my head and the ability to tackle any of them at random makes it easier to commit to other things, because I don't feel trapped doing one thing. Maybe that isn't right.
In any case, I feel like it is hard to fully commit to working 8 hours, working out for two hours and then hitting the podcast or another project (Eleuther.ai) for another two hours.

So instead I am deep in the thralls of the worst reddit and youtube addiction I have ever been in and I am not properly committing to any of those things.

It doesn't help that I am now managing a podcast that has a YouTube presence so to some extent I have to interact with the platform.

Today was really bad on a productivity front.

Tomorrow. I am going to write down how many productive hours I had for the Friday of this week.

Today was maybe 6 hours total... 

Tomorrow we are doing an interview with Cynthia Chestek on prosthetic limbs at 4:30.

Then if I am really lucky I will be able to run to do my olympic total.

So the plan for tomorrow is:

* Wake up at 6:30.
* Stretch
* Meditate
* Run around the block
* Shower
* Get to work and work from 7 - 11
* Lunch
* Work from 11:30 - 3:30 or 4
* 3:30 - 4:30 Talk with Michael to prep for our 4:30 interview
* Interview 4:30 - 5:30
* 5:30 - 6:30 post mortem with Michael and talk about what we still need to do to release Aline's episode
* Meditate
* Run around the block
* Dinner
* update this site
* Read The first 90 days
* pass out.

