---
title: June 13th, 2021
description: June 13th
img: June.jpg
alt: June pic
author:
  name: Douglas
  bio: Douglas is a Software Engineer who is interested in computer vision and our quest for strong AI. He also is constantly looking for ways to push the envelope of his personal mental and physical fitness.
  image: ProfileDoug.jpg
  alt: Doug's profile pic
---

I am going to keep yesterday's format of the daily routine.
Then I am going to add what I want to do tomorrow. 

- 5:45-6:00 Wake Up.
    - Woke up at 6:30 didn't get out of bed until 8 am bigger oof than yesterday. 
- Put on pants ✔️
- 7:45 do a meditation and reflection
  - Do a mantra on gratitude and that I may die. ✔️
  - Go over short (six months) and long term (5 years) goals ✔️
  - Go over my core principles ✔️
  - Imagine what my whole day from that point onward will look like. Go over what I need to do to get there. ✔️
  - Go over my constraints for the day. ❌
    - I briefly thought about what these should hypothetically be but I didn't commit to them and ended up taking a quick look at more socials then perhaps I should have.
-  8 am - 12 pm - Deep work ✔️
    - Turned into 9 am to 12 pm. 
    - Machine learning work
    - Interview prep
- Run to a workout for 6:15 am while listening to an audio book ✔️
    - I ended up working out on my own at 12 as planned.
    - I started Data Science for Business
    - I got a PR. 4:15 for my run for the .69 miles. Beat my previous time by 5 seconds. 
- 6:15 - 7:30 Workout ✔️
    - Did the 12 pm workout. All I did was do a muscle up for the first time! That was awesome.
- Walk home while listening to that audio book ✔️
- Cold Shower ✔️
- 12 pm - 12:30 pm Lunch ✔️
    - Walked to the arboretum and read for a bit. Would highly recommend
- 12:30 pm - 5:00 pm - Shallow Work.
    - Podcast work.
- 5:00 pm - 6:00 pm Dinner 
- 6:00 pm - 8:00 pm - Deep Work ✔️
    - Resume Polishing
- 8:00 pm - 9:30 pm - Relax and spend time with friends and family 
    - I like doing this :)
- 9:30 pm - 10:00 pm - Read ✔️
    - It is late. 10:40 But I will be reading before sleep.
- 10:00 pm - 6:00 am - SLEEP ✔️
    - Going to sleep late. Will be waking up at 7 again most likely.

Tomorrow:

I want to keep polishing the resume.
Recently, I have been doing at least one hackerrank challenge a day.

I want to rotate these like I would a workout regiment.

Instead of different body parts different skills.

Bash, SQL and python.
Although I know all of these fairly well, it definitely helps in my job and in interview to practice in this context.

Tomorrow will be a python day.

I also want to note all of the outcomes from training the controller on this Ml algorithm finally. It should be finally running tests tomorrow.

Then tomorrow or the next day I need to fork all of my changes over to a new branch.
Then I need to add a new commit with my changes for training in dreams. By predicting environment outcomes.

I am a little worried this project might not actually be worthwhile and that all I have really learned is that I need to concretely decide what my code changes will be and impliment them before I start running any version of it.

In any case, I am excited to be continuing down the ML path.
Even if the path is bumpy.

Other than those general ideas I want to stick to my daily routine.
I think we might need to make some minor edits to it to do things like making my bed, updating this website etc.

Chase what excites you.
Douglas
