---
title: June 12th, 2021
description: June 12th
img: June.jpg
alt: June pic
author:
  name: Douglas
  bio: Douglas is a Software Engineer who is interested in computer vision and our quest for strong AI. He also is constantly looking for ways to push the envelope of his personal mental and physical fitness.
  image: ProfileDoug.jpg
  alt: Doug's profile pic
---

Yesterday, I said that I would do my daily routine for the first time end to end again.

Let's see how I did.

- 5:45-6:00 Wake Up.
    - Woke up at 7 am oof. 
- Put on pants ✔️
- Run to a workout for 6:15 am while listening to an audio book ✔️
    - I ended up working out on my own at 9 as planned.
    - I don't have an audio book, but I found one today.
- 6:15 - 7:30 Workout ✔️
- Walk home while listening to that audio book
- Cold Shower ✔️
- 7:45 do a meditation and reflection
  - Do a mantra on gratitude and that I may die. ❌
  - Go over short (six months) and long term (5 years) goals ❌
  - Go over my core principles ❌
  - Imagine what my whole day from that point onward will look like. Go over what I need to do to get there. ❌
  - I did a 20 minute meditation but I didn't really explicitely do any of the above. I did briefly think about each of these things but I didn't go over them with the discipline I would need to to give myself a checkmark.
  - Go over my constraints for the day. ❌
-  8 am - 12 pm - Deep work ✔️
    - Machine learning progress, website progress, interview prep progress
- 12 pm - 12:30 pm Lunch ✔️
    - Walked to the arboretum and read for a bit. Would highly recommend
- 12:30 pm - 5:00 pm - Shallow Work.
    - Didn't do emails or anything else really shallow... But wasn't deeply engrossed in my work.
- 5:00 pm - 6:00 pm Dinner 
- 6:00 pm - 8:00 pm - Deep Work ✔️
    - Still not really deep But more progress on all of the things
- 8:00 pm - 9:30 pm - Relax and spend time with friends and family 
    - No one is here :( This does make getting back into the routine more tenable though
- 9:30 pm - 10:00 pm - Read ✔️
    - It is late. 10:40 But I will be reading before sleep.
- 10:pm pm - 6:00 am - SLEEP ✔️
    - Going to sleep late. Will be waking up at 7 again most likely.