---
title: May 10th, 2021
description: A reflection on a month of daily posts
img: May.jpg
alt: May 2021 Calendar
author:
  name: Douglas
  bio: Douglas is a Software Engineer who is interested in computer vision and our quest for strong AI. He also is constantly looking for ways to push the envelope of his personal mental and physical fitness.
  image: ProfileDoug.jpg
  alt: Doug's profile pic
---

# An Initial Caveat.

Although it has technically been a month since I started doing these daily reflections, this is only my 18th <i>daily</i> post. This goes into why and the impacts of that, but it isn't quite a full month of daily reflections. I want to be honest and up front.

# Onto the reflection...

For the past week I have been either traveling to, being in, or traveling back from Kauai, Hawaii. It was a blast. But for that time I didn't write a single reflection. I didn't meditate a single time. I hiked a lot, but I didn't do anything like what I would normally consider a workout.

Now I feel like I should be able to get back here, fully refreshed and jump back into my routine of excitement and work.

But my <nuxt-link to="/blog/DailyRoutine">daily routine</nuxt-link> is hard. What made it possible is the power of habit, momentum, and excitement of watching my rapid progress. By going on vacation I have intentionally steered myself into a stall and turned off the engine with the assumption that I should be able to switch the engine back on at any point with no repercussions.

As I try to stear out of the stall, the idea of sitting down and writing my daily quick quip about my day is hard because the accountability I had built for myself here feels a little foreign. It feels like I am starting over again. So I am forcing myself to do what I said I was too tired to do last night, and to remind myself that at the end of every day I will have a post that the whole world could go see. That today, will be accountable just like most of the previous 30 days.

With some of those thoughts in mind, the habit starts to grudgingly feel like it is settling in again. 

I do think that this force of accountability is more powerful than I initially gave it credit for. In part because of this little blog that currently, no one else reads, I have been working my 9-5 job, starting to work on applications to a variety of PhD programs, started a podcast (coming soon), all while maintaining this little site. That is largely because this site will show to the world what I honestly thought of my day at the end of it. In some ways that is dangerous. I don't want to talk about my social life here and because of that I find myself neglecting it at the detriment of those around me. The unsexy topics fall to the wayside as I prioritize what I will be excited to write down at the end of the day.

I don't have a solution to that just yet. But for now, I am excited to push my way back into the habits that have allowed me to really start pursuing several of my dreams. I also am excited to do that with perhaps a more measured approach so I can take my friends and family along for the ride so I can allow them to share the excitement instead of just chasing after it while leaving them behind.

After all that is the whole point of this website. To show others the things that excite me and to teach them how to chase their excitement with me, even if our paths diverge a bit as we go.

So chase what excites you. 
As promised to myself, below you'll find what I've been up to for the day.
Douglas

Woke up at 7:30 am after a whopping 4 hours and 17 minutes of very jetlagged sleep. 
Did Taxes from 7:30 am to 9 am
Worked for my 8 hours.
At some point I dealt with a fraudulent debit card charge from expedia.
Went and did a crossfit workout and hit a strain of 17 on my Whoop, big yikes.
Got an at home haircut
Showered for entirely too long (However long you think it was it was longer)
Wrote this.
Gonna read some sci-fi and pass out
Here's to 8 hours of sleep.
