---
title: April 11th, 2021
description: A reflection on Saturday the 11th of April
img: April.jpg
alt: April Calendar
author:
  name: Douglas
  bio: Douglas is a Software Engineer who is interested in computer vision and our quest for strong AI. He also is constantly looking for ways to push the envelope of his personal mental and physical fitness.
  image: ProfileDoug.jpg
  alt: Doug's profile pic
---

This is a Saturday so it is pretty relaxed.

- 5:00 AM - Woke up
- 6:00 AM - Woke up again...
- 7:00 AM - Woke up and got out of bed.
- 7:00 AM - 9:00 AM worked on this website. 
  - Got dailies set up and working. What you are reading now! Fixed search and a laundry list of other small things.
- 9:00 AM - 11:45 AM Relaxing. Planning a vacation. Some of the reflection stuff. :)
- 11:45 AM - 12:00 PM Ran the .7 miles to the gym. First time officially timing it. 4 minutes 50 seconds 4:50
- 12:00 PM - 1:30 PM Practice double unders.
  - There are many crossfit things I need to work on, but this one is a big limitter. I was hoping by grinding these and researching technique I would go from my previous PR two weeks ago of 27 to 50+. Instead I went up to 31. My consistency is definitely higher, I learned a lot about technique and I think I had lost some of the skill here since I had last practiced. In the future I'll start working these into workouts instead of just grinding them since I can get 20+ in a row.
  - Double under is sending the rope under your feet twice every jump
- 1:45 PM Get home (No audio book on walk. I need one.)
- 1:45 PM to 2:00 PM Cold shower
- 2:00 PM to 4:30 PM Vaguely search for food. For some reason I was craving a kale salad. Which is weird I never crave salad. Eat some enchiladas
- 4:30 PM to 6:00 PM Hang out and relax
- 6:00 PM to 8:00 PM Read research papers
  - <a href="https://worldmodels.github.io">worldmodels.github.io</a>
  - Start to look at several of the cited papers.
- 8:00 PM to 9:15 PM Talk on the phone with a research friend. Commit myself to finding some good pytorch examples of VAE's
- 9:45 Go to sleep much later then I should to wake up at 5 AM for a crossfit class.

What I could do better:
- Waking up. When I wake up I need to get up. Even if I am catching up on sleep and I don't have an alarm like today.
- Need an audio book
- I was super indecisive when thinking about food and getting it. Should have decided and executed.
- Could have pushed myself harder on the double unders. Will work in other workouts in the future.

What went well:
- I spent the right amount of time relaxing for a weekend day I think.
- Still very productive
