---
title: April 22th, 2021
description: A reflection on Thursday the 22nd of April
img: April.jpg
alt: April Calendar
author:
  name: Douglas
  bio: Douglas is a Software Engineer who is interested in computer vision and our quest for strong AI. He also is constantly looking for ways to push the envelope of his personal mental and physical fitness.
  image: ProfileDoug.jpg
  alt: Doug's profile pic
---

I forgot to write something up yesterday because I spent so much time trying and failing to get GDPR compliant cookies set up.
Today I finally finished that task.

I also finished <i>[On Learning to Think](https://arxiv.org/abs/1511.09249)</i> It was a good read. The biggest take away from that is that I deeply love the ideas behind meta-learning.

The concrete examples in that paper on different architectures are good, but the paper is ~6 years old at this point.

As I began trying to learn more about that paper and it's associated techniques I realized that I was really chasing an understanding of meta-learning which is in a far better place now, than it was at the time of the writing of that paper. I have started going through the [Stanford meta-learning and Multi-task course](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0rZtSwNOTQo) that is available online and will be posting some of my assignments here as I do them.

I also realized that the On Learning to Think paper came out of IDSIA. I have seen this universities name around a lot when attempting to understand larger concepts. I could apply and go live in Switzerland but I only have 8 days to apply. I think this would only make sense if I could go research in a lab there. I have reached out to see if that was a possibility because living in the Italian part of Switzerland learning about Deep Learning sounds like one of the most fantastic adventures I could go on.

No workout today, and the mantra is done occasionally, but seems less and less needed as I delve deeper into the Machine Learning world. It is an exciting place. 

Remember to always chase your excitement.

Douglas
